= Synopsis = 
EAARL-B, RTK, and aerial photographs are used to study the breach dynamics of a storm cut in Fire Island, NY from 2012-2015.

= Conclusions =
* Breach reached a quasi-equilibrium in width after 3 years
* High wave energy during spring seemed to accrete sediment in the breach and shrink its width

= Criticisms =


= Notes =
== Methods ==
=== Bathymetric change ===
* Bathymetric dynamics was analyzed with 4 surveys (2012,2013,2014, and 2015) which had resolutions of 1m, 1m, 25m (and a 50m survey), and 25m, respectfully.
	* No volumetric change analysis was done, instead rate of change of cross-channel bathymetry was analyzed

=== Morphologic change ===
* shoreline migration, beach width, spit length, and orientation of primary discharge channel were analyzed from the remotely sensed data
* Uncertainty in shoreline discrimination forced a broad trend description rather than a quantitative analysis
==== Breach dynamics ====
* shore-parallel transects were drawn with 5m intervals over the breach. Intersections of these transects with the lidar/aerial-photographic/GPS derived shorelines allowed for time-dependent assessment of the breach metrics.
	- Breach width is defined as the average of every width determined by the shore-parallel transects
	- orientation is the slope of the line fit through the individual width lines' midpoints
	- _This seems like an interesting methodology and could be applied to Caminada_

=== Waves ===
* WAVEWATCH III was used for a 3 year periods (Oct. 2012 to Oct. 2015)
* $H_{m0}$ were interpolated to a 20m depth contour adjacent the breach
* Data is analyzed in terms of seasons and presented as a table of wave-roses
	- Jan. to Mar.  : winter
	- Apr. to June  : spring
	- July to Sept. : summer
	- Oct. to Dec.  : autumn

== Results ==
* Widening of the breach primarily occurred through migration of one breach channel shoreline (the western one)
	* after 2 years this shows a more seasonal oscillation, eventually reaching some quasi-equilibrium
