= Topics =
- Literature
- Data
== Literature ==
=== Highlighting/tab color code key ===

| Color  | Highlight                    | Tab                          |
|--------|------------------------------|------------------------------|
| Yellow | Point of interest            | Point of interest            |
| Orange | Important point              | Important point              |
| Red    | Dubious or contentious point | Dubious or contentious point |
| Green  | Data                         | Data                         |
| Blue   | Equation                     | Equation                     |


=== Physics ===
==== Hydrodynamics ====
	* [[Wave spectrum]]
		- [[Jonswap spectrum|Jonswap]]
		- [[Direction spreading]]
	* [[Wave energy balance]]
		- [[Shoaling]]
		- [[White capping]]
		- [[Wave breaking]]
		- [[Refraction]]
		- [[Diffraction]]
		- [[Non-linear ineraction]]
		- [[Bottom friction]]
	* [[Wave skewness]]
	* [[Wave action balance]]
	* [[IG waves]]
	* [[Momentum equations]]
		- [[Depth-integrated and time-averaged]]
			- [[Wave drivers]]
		- [[GLM method]]
	* [[Stokes' drift]]

==== Sediment transport ====
* [[Shields parameter]]

=== Data analysis ===
	* [[Data presentation]]
	* [[Error analysis]]
	* [[Covariance]]
	* [[Interpolation methods]]
	* [[GIS methods]]
	* [[grids_and_datums|Grids and datums]]

=== Research papers ===
==== General ====
	* [[Baldock et al. (2000)]]
	* [[Baldock (2012)]]
	* [[Bowen and Guza (1978)]]
	* [[Callaghan et al. (2013)]]
	* [[Elgar et al. (1992)]]
	* [[Holthuijsen et al. (1989)]]
	* [[Huntley et al. (1981)]]
	* [[Kobayashi et al. (1996)]]
	* [[Nederhoff (2015)]]
	* [[Nielsen and Baldock (2010)]]
	* [[Plant et al. (2002)]]
	* [[Ranasinghe (2016)]]
	* [[Schäffer and Svendsen (1988)]]
	* [[Schäffer (1993)]]
	* [[Symonds et al. (1982)]]
	* [[Terlouw MSc Thesis (2013)]]
	* [[van Dongeren et al. (2003)]]
	* [[van Dongeren et al. (2007)]]
	* [[Walstra et al. (2000)]]

==== Coastal science ====
	* [[Burvingt et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Hapke et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Plant and Stockdon (2012)]]
	* [[Schwab et al. (2013)]]
	* [[Splinter et al. (2018)]]
	* [[Stockdon et al. (2007)]]
	* [[Stone et al. (2004)]]

===== Lidar based research =====
	* [[Claudino-Sales et al. (2010)]]
	* [[Ge et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Harley et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Splinter et al. (2018)]]
	* [[Zhang (2011)]]

==== XBeach ====
	* [[Berard et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Bergillos et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Bugajny et al. (2015)]]
	* [[de Vet (2014)]]
	* [[de Vet et al. (2015)]]
	* [[de Winter et al. (2015)]]
	* [[Elsayed and Oumerci (2017)]]
	* [[Harter and Figlus (2017)]]
	* [[McCall et al. (2010)]]
	* [[Muller et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Roelvink et al. (2009)]]
	* [[Roelvink et al. (2012)]]
	* [[Roelvink et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Simmonds et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Smallegan et al. (2016)]]
	* [[Smallegan et al. (2017)]]
	* [[Sherwood et al. (2014)]]
	* [[Stockdon et al. (2014)]]

==== Lidar ====
	* [[Evans and Hudak (2007)]]
	* [[Tinkham et al. (2011)]]

==== GoM science ====
	* [[Houser (2013)]]

=== White papers ===
[[BA-45 Final Design Report]]
[[BA-143 Final Design Report]]
[[2017 Coastal Master Plan]]

==== Notes ====
	- 100 yr storm (Hs = 33.1 ft, Tp = 14.6 s) (BA-45 final design report, WIS results)
	- Depth of closure varies spatially and between studies. -4.575m NAVD88 was used in the design of Caminada Headlands Restoration Project 

=== Technical reports ===
==== USGS ====
[[Louisiana BICM (2013)]]
[[Louisiana BICM (2017)]]
[[USGS_coastal_erosion_haz|Coastal erosion hazards (Stockdon et al, 2012)]]
[[corr_multi_lidar|Correct multiple lidar data sets (Thompson et al., 2017)]] 
