= Synopsis =
The purpose is to test and validate XBeach on complex 2D bathymetry (Ameland, a barrier island) for use in assessment of safety (test case is for large storm).

The results revealed that the lidar data was of insufficient quality to allow for modeling. As a result, a qualitative analysis of the storm impacts was carried out. The possible reasons for the bad data include:
	1. different calibration methods
	2. incorrect use of correction factors
	3. visual correction
	4. different collection agencies


= Author's conclusions =


= Notes =
* Cites [[Battjes et. al (2004)]] stating for mild slope beaches ($β < 0.3$, where $β$ is the dimensionless beach slope) the bound [[IG waves|IG wave]] is dominate because the excursion length of the break point is large and reduces the effectiveness of this mechanism.
* The author identifies the need for accuracy in the lidar due to the small scale of the morphological features he is modeling ($O[1m]$).
	- To assess the horizontal accuracy he plots contours of one lidar data set and another for inspection.
		- He finds that at some locations the lidar's elevation has been shifted by meters.
			- This is not quantitative.
			- Why privilege the reference data set as true?
			- One data set is pre- and the other is post-storm. How can he be sure the difference isn't due to the storm?
* To assess the vertical accuracy, using the same two lidar data sets, the author visually compares collocated transects.
	- Significant differences are found in the horizontal and vertical aspects of the transects.
		- The vertical difference could be due to different lidar returns being used.
		- Its possible that projection errors caused the different horizontal positions.
	- As a result, the author manually shifted the data and completed a qualitative assessment.
